This prototype automated crop type mapping system for Rwanda leverages multi-sensor remote sensing data (Sentinel 1 & 2, dynamic world, SRTM). The crop mapping pipeline can be used to map the four most important staple foods in Rwanda (rice, maize, beans, Irish potatoes) in four Rwandan districts, and produce timely, 10-meter resolution crop type maps. Reference data from different sources including project field work, global research projects, and Rwandan authorities were used to fine-tune the geospatial foundational model Galileo for the downstream task of mapping what type of crop grows where. The reference data collected in the field was supported through the creation of polygon labels with PlanetScope imagery in collaboration with Rwandan academia. The crop mapping pipeline, the fine-tuned model, and the project's reference data are openly available for further usage. The overall good accuracy yielded by the approach under conditions with small field sizes, varying elevation and high cloud cover are promising for a successful application in all kinds of regions. Nevertheless, local reference data remains crucial for crop type mapping and an ideal approach should include all types of crops. You can follow the approach to create your own crop type mapping system, utilize the pipeline to fetch satellite imagery for various purposes, get inspired by the use and fine-tuning of the geospatial foundational model and apply it to a different task. You can also use the collected reference data for your own model. Accurate data on which crop grows were can be used in various applications e.g. improving agricultural policy and business decisions, integrating with yield estimation frameworks for spatially detailed predictions of seasonal production, crop health monitoring, crop insurance design, value chain assessments, supply and demand forecasting, and more. 
