This team collected parallel text corpora for three Kenyan indigenous languages, Kidaw’ida, Kalenjin, and Dholuo, alongside Kiswahili, resulting in approximately 90,000 sentence pairs in total. After collection, the team separated out the Kidaw’ida, Kalenjin, and Dholuo sentences and used them as monolingual datasets for crowd-sourcing speech data, facilitated by uploading the sentences to Mozilla Common Voice. A total of 109 members of the three language communities were recruited to read and record sentences from their respective native languages. Emphasizing gender balance and including different ages and regional variants helped to make the datasets more representative. The voice datasets offer a substantial amount of speech data, comprising 56 hours of Kidaw’ida, 92 hours of Kalenjin, and 120 hours of Dholuo, for a total of 268 hours.
 
 Use cases for these parallel corpora include training models to translate text between Kiswahili and Kidaw’ida, Kalenjin, and Dholuo. The speech data on Mozilla Common Voice, along with its associated text data, is intended to be used for the development of speech recognition applications. The languages that comprise this dataset are low-resource, especially Kidaw’ida, which has only around 400,000 speakers and faces a more immediate risk of loss. By collecting the text and speech data, this team contributed to the preservation of these languages. They hope that once enough data has been collected to train accurate models and create NLP applications for these three languages, they will become more relevant in the modern digital age, thus mitigating the risk of loss.