When weather and crop yields become unpredictable, reliable information is crucial. In Rwanda, digital maps are showing for the first time exactly where which crops grow, helping to better adapt agriculture to climate change. Around one third of all food worldwide is lost between the field and the plate, for example due to pest infestation, incorrect storage or long transport routes. Climate change is exacerbating these losses: irregular rainfall, dry seasons and extreme weather events are jeopardising harvests and making planning increasingly difficult for farmers. Rwanda’s agricultural sector also faces these challenges. 

This automated crop type mapping system for Rwanda can be used in various applications e.g. improving agricultural policy and business decisions, integrating with yield estimation frameworks for spatially detailed predictions of seasonal production, crop health monitoring, crop insurance design, value chain assessments, supply and demand forecasting, and more.

It  leverages multi-sensor remote sensing data (Sentinel 1 & 2, dynamic world, SRTM). The crop mapping pipeline can be used to map the four most important staple foods in Rwanda (rice, maize, beans, Irish potatoes) in four Rwandan districts, and produce timely, 10-meter resolution crop type maps. 
Reference data from different sources including project field work, global research projects, and Rwandan authorities were used to fine-tune the geospatial foundational model Galileo for the downstream task of mapping what type of crop grows where. The reference data collected in the field was supported through the creation of polygon labels with PlanetScope imagery in collaboration with Rwandan academia. The crop mapping pipeline, the fine-tuned model, and the project's reference data are openly available for further usage.
