This dataset contributes to improved understanding and mitigation of the impacts of oil palm cultivation on forests and climate change. It can also serve to support sustainable forest management practices and empower local communities in forest resource management. 

The project created open and accessible training and evaluation datasets for machine learning applications focused on forest cover and change in Indonesia. It contains collections of polygons of uniform land cover, with labels indicating land cover type and, possibly, information on land cover change over time. To label land cover patches, the team has reviewed high-resolution satellite imagery facilitated by Collect Earth Online (CEO) and augmented it with field visits to difficult-to-classify areas. It has prioritized areas with significant landcover diversity with a preference for areas with significant smallholder production of  oil palm, coconut, and other commodities - given the well-known difficulties of distinguishing oil palm 
from coconut palm with lower resolution imagery.

Possible users of these outputs are local communities engaged in community forestry in Indonesia, as well as researchers, policymakers, and civil society organizations. The dataset also contributes to social forestry, which recognizes that people who depend on local forests are best placed to look after them, and that allowing communities to manage and use forest resources can have positive social, environmental and economic impacts. Social forestry is a broad term and has different names in different places. Some examples are community forestry, village forestry, participatory forestry, community-based forest management and people-centred forestry.